# Instacart Analysis
This project is for the analysis of Instacart an online grocery ordering service. Provided by Careerfoundry for their data analyitics program.
## Objective
Instacart has made many sale through their app but they want to uncover more of their customers spending habits on the app to better direct their marketing team towards their customers.
My task is to perform an analysis on their customer profiles to determine if there were any sales patterns that could help create target marking plans for these customers.
## Data
The open source Instacart data for this project can be viewed [here](https://www.instacart.com/datasets/grocery-shopping-2017)
## Resolution
First the orders and products datasets had to be clean by removing duplicate entries as well as entries missing data that could not be replaced with a mean value. Next the two datasets were merged to better analze the data for the goals of the project.I then sorted created columns to flag customers loyalty staus as one of three options (New Customer, Regualar Customer, and Loyal Customer) this flag was based on how many orders a customer has made. Then I created a pie chart to show the percentage of each customer group. Next to show what time and what day of the week were the most popular for orders I created a bar chart and histogram show show that Saturday and Sunday had the most orders and the most orders came in between 10AM and 4PM. Next a region flag was created for the orders to see which region in the U.S. should instacart focus on. Then with the data I created a bar chart to show that each reagion based on the bar chart each region had the relatively the same amount of spending the same amount of money. Next a flag was created for customer profiles to show their family status based off what they have ordered. The key to this flag was if they ordered products from the baby section and if they had any dependents. Once this was created a bar chart was made to show that most orders came from families with older children. Finally a flag was created to show based off what customers ordered if they could be vegetarian or not. This was if they ordered products from the meat departemnts. With this flag I sorted the data to see which group ordered more and which group spent more money. I then created visuals in Excel to help show that non-vegetarians on average spent more but more orders came from vegetarians. Based off the large scew of orders it was determined that this needed further data asmany of the orders could have been made without the need to buy meat products. After visualizing all the data and analyzing the results it was determined that the best marketing stategy should focus around weekends  from 10AM to 4 PM. If Instacart were to persue more into the vegetarian market then more data and time would be needed for further analysis to come up with a marketing strategy.
